# My Life In Data: 2022/23 Football Season

## Mission

1st February 2023. I found myself playing in tier 6 of BUCS football for the University of Edinburgh's 3rd XI. Having played in tier 2 for the University of Warwick's 1st XI five seasons prior, I couldn't quite believe it. Admittedly, this was my own doing. A lack of commitment meant I'd lost my place in Edinburgh's 2nd XI. Nonetheless, I was playing 4 divisions lower than my peak at 18 years old, and I was determined to progress through Edinburgh's ranks as quickly as possible.

I set myself a goal and a dream. I've listened to countless podcasts from sporting greats that distinguish between goals and dreams. Goals are things you can control. Dreams are out of your direct control. Focus on the process (not the outcome), and hopefully, the outcome will take care of itself. Sir David Brailsford pioneered this approach in cycling at Team GB and Team Sky. If it worked for them, it can work for me! It's an attitude I adopt throughout my life.

Hence, I assigned 2 objectives:

* Goal: be at the peak of my football career on my 24th birthday (6th May).
* Dream: start for the 1st XI in their last league game of the season (22nd April).

For this mission, the process was all about individual training, team training, fitness, strength, conditioning, and injury prevention. I had to stand out in one team to progress to the next. I'd played 90 minutes of competitive football in almost 3 years and had just returned from a torn hamstring; I was a long way away from standing out in any team.

