# Outliers

- Professional athletes with birthdays clustered around the top end of their age group. When they're 6 or 7, there is a small gap in ability due to greater physical development time. Then, they get selected for academies, they get way more training opportunity, and by the time they're 16, the gap is much, much bigger. Study [here](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0273229700905161).
- The Beatles were super lucky to get 6-10 hour gigs in Hamburg, 7 days a week for 2 years. They accumulated so many hours. Similarly, Bill Gates had an assortment of opportunities to program in his teens. These people were able to hit the 10,000 hour mark. There was so much luck involved.
- In commercial airlines, captains and first officers split flying duties equally. But, crashes are much more likely when the captain is in the flying seat. The first officer is afraid to speak up because of the forces of the hierarchy, and crashes happen. 
- Chinese, Korean, and Japanese number system is much simpler. Two-tens-one. The time it takes to say each number is much shorter. Given humans' 2 second short-term memory abilities, English speakers can remember approximately six numbers whilst Chinese can remember 10. Since it's simpler to grasp, Children have a headstart from a much younger age. Guess who ranks best in the world at maths?
- Academic who [found](https://www.taylorfrancis.com/chapters/edit/10.4324/9780203327531-2/predictors-national-differences-mathematics-science-achievement-eighth-grade-students-data-timss-erling-boe-henry-may-gema-barkanic-robert-boruch) a nation's maths ranking aligns exactly with how long the nation spends trying to solve a difficult problem. Shuts down the Western attitude you're either good or bad at maths. Those who try hard succeed.
- These studies on maths scores also tie to the story in Black Box Thinking: Chinese maths students encourage mistakes in the classroom, whilst Western students are embarressed to get the wrong answer.
- American student ability split by family wealth. The September to June increase in performance for each split was similar. Schools are not failing the poor in term time. However, when students return to school in September, the lower class students' performance decreases, whilst the higher class students perform higher. It is the long summer vacation that is failing the poor, not the schooling system. This acts as strong evidence against the need for all the politics around an overhaul to schooling.


