# Huberman Lab: Optimise your brain

* Morning light will increase your alertness to morning light in the future. Must keep getting it every 2-3 days, otherwise plasticity will result in losing this alertness.
* Optimum state of learning: Energy and focus to pursue action, and energy and focus to surprise action. Study drugs find it hard to suppress action.
* When super alert, silence is best for learning. When drowsy, visual and audio stimulus increases arousal which helps learning.
* First 3 hours of being awake are usually most alert.
* Early morning exercise triggers ‘go pathways’. Do it within first hour. Certainly within three hours.
* If too alert, I eat.
* Don’t eat carbs at lunch unless exercised heavily in the morning.
* 4pm: deep rest. Yoga or hypnosis (Revri Health, David Speagle). By this time I can’t think.
* Creativity is good after this. Creativity has 2 parts: brainstorming and linear implementation (concreting the ideas).
* Non-linear exploration is good in the afternoon when tired and creative.
* Get afternoon light: Morning light advances your clock but afternoon light will delay it again.
* Fasting and low-carb diet stimulates alertness. Carbs stimulate sleepiness. 
* Visualisation powerful? Probably if you can maintain linear focus during. But this is hard.
* Summary of topics covered: brain change, mental performance, go/no-go circadian autonomic system, food and fasting with alertness, creative brainstorming state, creative linear implementation state
* To analyse a tool ask does it increase or decrease me on the ladder of alertness?
* Ice baths, super oxygenation, cold showers will bring alertness up.
* Methods to change alertness: (1) Biological mechanisms, (2) other mechanisms (e.g. visualisation, a specific song)