# Lex Fridman: Pieter Levels

- Feeling like your free. Ignoring pressure to buy a house. Go exploring. But, you become lost. No friends. No direction. Realised, constraints make you happy, not being free makes you happy.
- Felt different from all friends in Holland. Wanted different things.
- Crazy experience: 6 of them living in Bali using the coworking space when it’s empty throughout the night. Wake up at 6am. Buy 30 lattes. Work all night playing techno music and building shit and drinking coffee. Everyone arrives at the space in the morning and they return to hostel/hotel to sleep. Loved it.
- Thailand and Chiang Mai wins of all places travelled (Vietnam, South America, more). Friendliness of the people makes it. Interesting contradiction to my Thailand experience.
- Disrooted. Individualistic. Didn’t make him happy, but it was cool.
- Stable diffusion 1.5 the best
- Anyone can play on replicate and build an app or website
- The trade off of trusting the first idea that comes to you. The first idea is the product of years of subconscious processing. You can actively think for a further 8 hours, but can that compete with years of buildup?
- Aligned with me: values relationships but wants openness in location. These things will crystallise.
- GPT-4 very good for identifying spam and rude comments in reviews or a community discussion
- 12 start ups in 12 months. 12 models in 12 months?
- Free users are rubbish. Paid users create a great community who care about your product. 1000 users at $30 a month is $30K
- Every error any user encounters gets sent to his telegram
- Never coded with anyone in his life
- Most people average at their job. The more people you hire, the harder it is to remain elite
- Uninteeeuoed period for creation. Had a friend who books a hotel and leaves wife and kid at home when he needs to create(write/code). Distractions are okay during periods of maintenance, rather than creation.
- Lex found he can get much stronger by wasting 1-2 meals per day and fasting, rather than adopting the small meal pattern common when strength training
- XXX adaption made him think about minimalism. 3:23:00. Could be interesting to see how research. But a new house, 6 months later you are not excited because you have a new baseline.
- Don’t ask someone already successful how to be successful. Just start, and copy their methods. Everyone has built on top of others’ progress
- Median of top performing countries in Europe is 1913 and US 1963. A symptom of the difference in attitudes to entrepreneurship  in recent years.
- Cafes are beautiful for creation. Europe are banning laptops in cafes more and more.