# Lex Fridman - #459 - Deepseek

- Mixture of experts model means only a subset (~37B) of neurons are activated during training and inference which massively reduces cost.
- Very sparse. 8 out of 256 experts activate. Usually around 25% of experts activate.
- OpenAI in 2022 spent all their money and all their compute on training mixture of experts GPT4 at a time most leading researchers at Google etc didn’t believe in the MoE model. It worked.
- USA are letting other countries have F-35s but not GPUs!
- China has huge industrial power, which is the constraint on the USA’s ability to build data centres. Long term, China will produce their own chips, at which point, they will outperform the US due to differences in power capacity. US need short- to medium-term gains in AI to outperform China in the AI war.
- Will China’s desire for chips lead to military action in Taiwan, where the chips are made? Will they sabotage the production of all chips for the whole world.
- The ban on chips was early October 2022, before even the release of ChatGPT. The national security officials within the US government already had an idea on the power of GenAI and the influence it’ll have across the world.
- Slight left bias on internet. If using internet for pre training, you have a bias model. Really really hard to censor this in output.
- Prompt rewriting common: “generate an image of a beautiful car” as a promptly, another language model will be used to make prompt more descriptive since image models like super detailed prompts
- Chain of thought and search used in GPT4
- ByteDance have like 500k GPUs. They bypass the export control by renting GPUs all over the world. New diffusion rules from US government aimed to prevent this.
- H20 better for inference due to increased memory, H100 better for training 
